- All right, it's a patented type
of skeletal strength condition.
- Easy for you to say, Mark!
- Skeletal strength conditioning
that improves your overall health.
- Yes, one time a week, for ten minutes,
sweat-free, pain-free
session at OsteoStrong.
You develop strength,
improve bone density,
better posture, balance,
and athletic performance,
while eliminating that
joint and back pain.
Joining us with more on this
unique type of training,
the inventor of the technology,
Dr. John Jaquish.
Welcome.
- Good morning to you!
- Thank you for coming in.
- Thanks for having me.
- So many people, I think,
suffer, from all this stuff.
- Of course.
- Yeah, we wanna get to
the beginning, though,
of your story because
- It's personal for you
- It is personal.
- Why you created OsteoStrong technology
in the first place, because of your mom.
- Right, because my mother
was diagnosed with osteoporosis,
and I started researching what I could do
to potentially address the problem,
and what I came to was gymnasts.
Gymnasts have superhuman bone density,
and the reason is the way
they contact the ground,
the rate at which they hit the ground,
gives them sometimes ten
times their own body weight
through their muscular skeletal system.
So, the objective in creating the devices
was building a device that gave us
the benefits of high-impact,
and then using robotics and
computer monitor biofeedback,
that we take the risk out of it,
so instead of an out of control event,
it becomes an in control event.
- [Mark] Okay, tell us about OsteoStrong,
that's what you call it.
Age-range in members, what
type of people you see.
- So, Mark, Jess,
almost anybody with bones would benefit.
So, somebody who's a high-end
athlete, an elite athlete,
who wants to be able to contact the ground
and deliver more force,
or absorb more force into the
body without taking injury,
would benefit from this,
but we're all high-performance athletes
because the two of you, even
older, de-conditioned people,
- We all have moments
- Yeah that would be us.
- Where we have to brace for an impact.
You miss a step when you,
you know, fall off a curb
or something like that.
- Look, Sam took offense, we did it,
we sit there for a living.
So you've got these pieces of
equipment that you patented.
- Yes, everything's patented.
- Tell us about it.
- [Dr. John Jaquish] So
the devices are robotic,
they weigh a few thousand pounds
so we didn't bring them in,
but I brought some
examples of what can apply
or show the application,
how we load the body.
So, everything's patented,
just to make sure nobody can come up
with some goofy knock-off of it.
And, right, so you have
to go to OsteoStrong
to take advantage of this
bone-strengthening technology.
Now, it also does great
things for posture,
so shoulders move back,
you made the joke about, Jess.
- [Mark] Yes, all of us
are at computers, too,
we're all hunched over.
- [Dr. John Jaquish] Phones, great, right,
so lots of biomechanics.
Shoulders move back, your ribcage opens up
and you take in more
oxygen with every breath.
- [Mark] You brought in
not the big machines,
but you brought in this
X3 Bar, tell us about it,
and Jessica's gonna actually do it.
- So, X3 Bar is another
one of my inventions,
so you're just gonna grab this for me.
Right, now what you're gonna do,
is you're gonna curl right now.
You're gonna bring the bar
up, good, as high as you can.
Okay, that's 100 pounds at the top,
- That she's holding right now
- Wow.
- It's a lot of resistance.
- Now when you're down, you
can't handle 100 pounds,
but you're seven times stronger
in the stronger range
of motion than you are
in the weaker range of motion.
Same thing with impact,
emulation, biomechanics,
and that's what the whole
principle is based on.
- Right.
- Wow.
- So, yeah, this is here
just to show people,
now that's another product that's amazing
for building muscle
mass, reshaping the body,
and they have that at OsteoStrong, also.
- Okay, now you've also brought
this second piece of equipment
that we're gonna stand on this.
- Right, so this is a warm-up device,
you wanna bend your knees, Mark,
and I'm gonna flip this on,
and so this vibrates in
three different ways,
side to side, up and down,
and forward and backward
to make the body slightly unstable,
so that reflexes fire
so that in your core,
in your neck, all the things
that maybe de-conditioned
or giving you chronic
pain, become relaxed,
and then you're prepared for
the movement on the robotics.
- So this is the first thing you would do.
- Yeah, exactly.
- All right.
- It switches you on, yeah.
- Does it feel cool?
- Yeah, yeah, it's weird.
- It's weird.
It shakes the whole stage.
Quickly, you have an initiative for
Breast Cancer Awareness
month, what are you doing?
- Yes we do, so for
those that are survivors
of breast cancer, or are
currently in treatment,
a lot of those medications
are very damaging to bone,
so they can go into the
OsteoStrong location
and get a free month.
There's also a free
session for anybody else.
- Awesome, we have the information,
new location, Washington Boulevard.
For more info you can go to
https://osteostrongla.com/,
follow them on Instagram,
thanks for being here.
- Okay, when you turned it
off I didn't realize it.
- We'll be right back.
- I didn't realize how much it'd shake.
- Thanks for having me.
- Thank you.